Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Answer: Programming languages are used in computer programming to create programs that implement specific algorithms.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Answer: it contains the Java Virtual Machine (JVM)

   Components are:
   	The Runtime Interpreter
   	The Compiler
   	The Applet Viewer
   	The Debugger
   	The Class File Disassembler
   	The Header and Stub File Generator
   	The Documentation Generator
   	Applet Demos
   	API Source Code


What is IDE?
Answer: Integrated Development Environment


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Answer: popular IDE are IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, and NetBeans.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: Editor, Source Code, Java Compiler, Byte code, JVM, Operating system.

what is class?
Answer: the basic building block of an object-oriented language


What is object?
Answer: A Java object is a combination of data an procedures working on the available data.


What is the entry point of an application?
Answer: The main method is the entry point of a Java application.


Why main is static?
Answer: because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: Object is a super class of any class


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: - Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
        - Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
        A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.
        Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final.
        An abstract class may contain non-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Answer: no,


what is Access Specifier?
Answer: The  access specifiers private and protected cannot be assigned to a class. 


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Answer: - Object Oriented Programming
        - Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: - Package in Java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces.
        - java.lang package is imported by default


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Answer: - Package in Java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces.
        - java.lang package is imported by default


Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Answer: - No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly
        - because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
Answer: Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Answer: - An exception object is an instance of an exception class.
        - It gets created and handed to the Java runtime when an exceptional event occurred that
          disrupted the normal flow of the application. This is called “to throw an exception” because
          in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Answer: - The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class.
        - can be used to attach a Variable or Method to a Class.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Answer: Final can only be assigned once. Once a final variable has been assigned, it always contains the same value.
        final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
        - final variable is used to create constant variables
        - final method is used to prevent method overriding.


What is final, finally and finalize?
Answer:  - A final class cannot be instantiated, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be
           reassigned.
         - The finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block.
         - The finalize() method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation.


What is a constructor ?
Answer: A constructor is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.


Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: Yes, a class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature are not the same.


If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: Deserialization involves creating objects without invoking a constructor.


What is "this" keyword in java ?
Answer: it is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Answer: It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.


What is JVM stand for ?
Answer: Java virtual machine


Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: The JVM must be platform dependent to allow your Java to run on the specific platform.


What version of java are you using?
Answer: Java version(s): 1.8


What is JAR stand for ?
Answer: Java ARchive


What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: the JVM actually runs Java byte-code, but the JDK


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: RE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment. It is the
        implementation of JVM.It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.
        JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit.It physically exists.It contains JRE + development tools.


What is compile time and run time?
Answer: - The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program.
          This compilation process is referred to as compile time.
        - A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.


What is heap?
Answer: The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.


How java manage it's memory?
Answer: The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating
        memory from the Operating System (OS), managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage
        objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:  - String is immutable object. The object created as a String is stored in the Constant String Pool.
           Every immutable object in Java is thread safe ,that implies String is also thread safe . String can not be
           used by two threads simultaneously.String once assigned can not be changed.

         -  StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object . The object created
            through StringBuffer is stored in the heap. StringBuffer has the same methods as the
            StringBuilder , but each method in StringBuffer is synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread
            safe .

         -  StringBuilder is same as the StringBuffer , that is it stores the object in heap and it can also
            be modified . The main difference between the StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuilder is also
            not thread safe. StringBuilder is fast as it is not thread safe .


What is Singleton class?
Answer: A singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time.


What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: -  Serialization in Java is a process used to convert Object into a binary format which can be persisted
           into disk or sent over network to any other running Java virtual machine
        -  Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object
           in memory.


when to use transient variable in java?
Answer: it used used in serialization.


Difference between while and do..while loop?
Answer: difference between these two loops is that, in while loops, test expression is checked at
        first but, in do...while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked. So, the code
        are executed at least once in do...while loops.


What is Enum?
Answer: Enum in java is a data type that contains fixed set of constants.


What is Iterator?
Answer: Iterator through a list of elements


Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Answer: int is one of several integer types. Some may be smaller than int, some may be larger, and
        some may be the same size, depending on the particular implementation you’re using


Why is String Immutable in Java?
Answer: Strings immutable it is possible to cache them more aggressively, access them from multiple threads


What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: constructor chaining is calling one constructor with in another constructor.
        Either a class can call its own constructor or its parent constructor to achieve constructor
        chaining


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: - a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one Garbage Collection

        - thread for the Garbage Collection operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple Garbage


What is JIT stands for?
Answer: It stands for “just in time”.


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Answer: - Java objects reside in an area called the heap.

        - When the heap becomes full,garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are
          no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects



Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No


What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of
        execution. Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains
        the reference to it.


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Answer: - Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
        - It is usefull because it makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime,
          without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time


what is multithreading in java?
Answer: The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to
        maximum utilize the CPU time


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Answer: Synchronization makes sure that only one thread will be executing at a time.


What is Framework?
Answer: frameworks are web-based software libraries that provide the user interface, or "view-layer", of Java web
        applications.


What are the testing Framework available in java?
Answer: - Arquillian
        - JTest
        - The Grinder
        - TestNG
        - JUnit
        - JWalk
        - Mockito
        - Powermock


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Answer: Both are testing framework used for unit testing. TestNG is similar to JUnit.Few more functionalities are added
        to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit


What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: Start-to-Finish Dependencies and Variations of Task Dependency Types.



what is dependency injection in java?
Answer: dependency injection is a technique whereby one object supplies the dependencies of another object.


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Answer: - Static binding in Java occurs during compile time
        - dynamic binding occurs during runtime.











